Society


social stratification:  a society’s categorization of its people into rankings based on wealth, income, power, education, occupation, gender, race and ethnicity, religion, family background. It is a process and system to define a person’s place in a hierarchy of layers in a society. Social stratification exists in all societies. Some are more formal and systemized while others are less formal. While social stratification provides a social order, those at the higher hierarchical layer have greater access to scarce resources and opportunities than those at the lower hierarchical layer, which limit social mobility, perpetuate or increase social inequality, cause social tension or even conflict.

social stratification/open system: an open stratification system provides more social mobility for people to change their socioeconomic status.

social stratification/closed system: a closed stratification system provides little or no social mobility for people to change their socioeconomic status.

social stratification/socioeconomic status: a person’s place within a system of social stratification.

social stratification/caste system: a social stratification system ranking people into different social hierarchy layers only based on their birth i.e. their parents background determines their socioeconomic status. It is a closed social stratification system where people can do little or nothing to change the social standing of their birth. The caste system determines all aspects of an individual’s life. Individual efforts and efforts do not provide opportunities to improve a person's social position.

social stratification/class system: a stratification system based on both socioeconomic factors and individual achievement. A social class consists of a set of people who share similar socioeconomic status based on factors like wealth, income, education, occupation and family background. It is an open system where there are various degrees of social mobility which give people opportunities to change their socioeconomic status and move up to higher social hierarchical layers, although the higher social class still have more access to resources and opportunities than lower social class. Often a modern society has an upper class, middle class and a lower class. The middle class can be further categorized into upper middle class, middle class and lower middle class.

social stratification/meritocracy system: a stratification system only based on personal effort and merit. It is hypothetical because no society exists where socioeconomic status was based entirely on personal effort and merit. However, meritocracy plays a factor in socioeconomic status change in an open social stratification system where social mobility is allowed to various extent. 

racial group: a group of people sharing the same or similar physical and biological attributes including skin color, hair texture and other attributes, such as white, black, Asian etc.

 ethnic group: a group of people sharing the same geographical origin and culture, such as Italian, French, Chinese, American, Singaporean.

religious group: a group of people sharing the same religious belief, such as Christianity, Buddists, Islam etc.

social stigma:a mark of disgrace associated with a particular circumstance, quality, or person. It is developed due to social stereotypes and is always negative. 

social stigma/public stigma: the overarching negative sentiment society has about people with a certain trait.

social stigma/self stigma: it happens when a person accepts the public stigma i.e. begins to consider their own traits shameful and deserving of criticism.

social stigma/structural stigma: it refers to the institutional policies based on social stigma, which operate in a way that puts a person at a disadvantage, though the individuals who work for that institution may have no bias against the person.

social stereotype: a widely-held fixed and oversimplified image or idea of a particular type of person or  thing, such as a specific gender, race, ethnicity, culture, religion etc. It is not always wrong or negative but often untrue or unfair.

social norms: the informal rules that govern behavior in groups and societies, specifying what is acceptable and what is not in certain social situations. Social norms emerge naturally through individuals’ interactions. They maintain social order and stability and reflect the common values of a group or a society.

 public policies: any formal government enactment that affects the well-being of people, including laws, regulations, executive orders, and court decisions. A government makes public policies to address certain issues or problems and achieve a certain goal or desired state. Policy-making is an ongoing process since who will benefit from policies and who will bear any burden resulting from the policy are continually reassessed, revisited and revised.

social culture: the shared practices, norms, values, beliefs common to the members of a society. It plays a significant role in shaping individual identities, influencing behavior, and fostering a sense of belonging and unity, of the members of the society.

social culture characteristics/individualism: individuals in a society are less integrated into social groups. They are often only related to their immediate family. The needs and desires of each individual are prioritized over the needs and goals of social groups.

social culture characteristics/collectivism: individuals in a society are closely integrated into social groups rather than only related to their immediate family.  The needs and goals of the social groups as a whole are more emphasized or take priority over the needs and desires of each individual.

social culture characteristics/uncertainty avoidance: the tendency to avert an event of something unexpected, unknown, or away from the status quo. There are stiff codes of conduct, guidelines, laws. People generally only rely on absolute truth.

social culture characteristics/tolerance for ambiguity: the tendency that people embrace uncertainties, are accustomed to ambiguity, and show more acceptance of differing thoughts or ideas. There are fewer regulations. The social environment is more free-flowing.

social culture characteristics/masculinity: a preference in a society for achievement, heroism, assertiveness, and material rewards for success.

social culture characteristics/femininity: a preference in a society for cooperation, modesty, caring for the weak, and quality of life.

social culture characteristics/indulgence: societal norms give high degree of freedom to society members in fulfilling the gratification of their basic and natural human desires related to enjoying life and having fun. 
 
social culture characteristics/restraint: societal norms tend to restrain and limit the freedom of society members in fulfilling the gratification of their basic and natural human desires. 






